session we need to certify from closed
session
so move okay
second
we need a roll call of members present
Mr Burton president Mr Fitzgerald
president Mr Henderson president
Mr Mays here Mr Moon here and Mr Dallas
is absent
we have two cases from closed sessions
we have a motion to certify the closed
session by Mr Burton seconded by Mr
Fitzgerald
the roll call vote Mr Burton Mr
Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon
aye and Mr Dallas is absent
our action from closed session
case a is expulsion with offer of
placement at the regional alternative
school for continuing Educational
Services to complete graduation
requirements
okay do you have a motion and a second
on that
so move second all in favor
Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr mayles
aye Mr Moon all right and Mr Dallas is
absent for case b we have expulsion with
off replacement at the regional
alternative school for continuing
Educational Services and to require the
student to complete the third millennium
program within six weeks
so move
second
Mr Burton
Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr mayles uh Mr Moon
aye and Mr dialysis absent
we have a motion to approve the release
from compulsory attendance for two
students
so I moved
second
this mix
Mr Burton uh Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills aye
Mr Moon and Mr Dallas is absent
we have a motion to approve Personnel
changes for October 11 2022 as presented
so move
second
Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills aye
Mr Moon
aye and Mr Dallas is absent
okay do we have any additions or
to the agenda
if not we'll prove move we approve the
agenda as post
second
Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon
all right and Mr Dallas is absent
move we approve the consent agenda
second
Mr Burton uh Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson
aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills aye Mr Moon aye
and Mr Dallas is absent
EE
okay
Mr Henderson did you have something
owned a building committee no not yet
did you have a question about the
calendar yes I'd like to discuss it if
we can the school calendar yes
something we don't need to do anything
not until you get to this yes okay
sounds good
all right
I think I did a roll call okay
I did a roll call right didn't I just do
a Roll-Up
okay now at this time we have public
presentations or at this time we have Dr
Jerry Wallace and Allison
Wireless they like to come forward or
welcoming I think you the new president
of Danville Community College
okay
good evening
thank you to the board and uh
superintendent Jones for giving me the
opportunity to introduce myself and
share a couple of things that I've
worked on so far I've been in a position
about 100 days so I'm learning the area
really well I did have a slide just for
a few things just to so I could share
out I don't know if the slide there it
is right there my name is Dr Jerry
Wallace I actually moved uh here with my
wife Allison we are I'm glad to announce
that we're expecting she is actually 10
weeks as of last Saturday so really
happy about that uh one of the goals of
moving to Danville was to start our
family she's originally from Beckley
West Virginia so that's the connection
to the region and I wanted to give you
an update on my first 90 days as far as
it as it relates to Pennsylvania County
Schools one thing that I was charged
with was to be out and about when I
accepted the role so one of the things I
instituted was a peoples and places tour
so Danville community colleges service
the city of Danville Pennsylvania county
and Halifax County so in these 90 days
I've met with Mr Fitzgerald and his wife
Portia I actually attended the NAACP
Pennsylvania County's luncheon recently
also met with Ben Davenport and as well
as Dr Jones so we were able to look at
some of the things that we do and what
we can do better I also got to tour pctc
so I really loved that that the collect
the collaboration that we have with them
but I will share some of the things that
we're looking at moving forward so
recently we just had our cyber nights
competition and it was open to everybody
that we service and we had 20 students
they were all from Pennsylvania county
so we really impressed with your uh what
you're teaching your students and they
were ready to go they jumped in it was
short notice but they did an excellent
job so all of the winners are from
Pennsylvania county we were able to give
out eight laptops to the winners and the
participants were really happy about
that
um other things that we have coming is a
cyber security training so through the
efforts of uh Senator Warner and Senator
Kane we were DCC was given 850 000 to
build up a short-term 16-week uh cyber
security training uh we were we did a
ribbon cutting for our new lab all of
your students were there and now we have
to look at something that's a little
non-credit and can morph really quickly
so we're looking at uh offering one in
Pennsylvania county as well as city of
Danville and Halifax County so that
should be on the way and uh another
important program that we have coming is
our aviation maintenance this is a
collaboration with averitt University as
you know they they too they bring out
Pilots we're going to actually work on
the actual planes so with the casino
coming we're trying to get geared up and
make sure that as these visitors come
into the city of Danville that they're
able to get out on their plane so this
is a big program that we're going to
have we're looking at fall of uh 2024 to
launch this completely but we're already
building it up right now another
partnership we have with Avery
University is not only to let our DCC
students take their classes but for
favorite students to take our classes so
averitt doesn't have to build a welding
lab they can use ours as well as
cosmetology and all the Hands-On
learning that every students don't get
an opportunity to get exposed to so all
this is important because we want
students to stay here we want them to
stay in the area in the region find
employment and last but not least the
pctc collaboration this is a major
opportunity we see that out of all of
our districts the way that pctc mirrors
and rolls into our programs is like none
other so even as city of Danville builds
their new high school and Halifax has
new additions we want them to look like
pctc the model is there we want to
replicate it and right now we're looking
at trying to offer more programs at the
building at the site so Pittsylvania
County students don't have to travel to
the city of Danville to take a class if
you guys I already have the structure
and things like that we want to be
collaborative we want to give you more
resources and try to build out so we can
have more offerings here at uh in
Pennsylvania county so that's something
that we're looking at as well in closing
just want to let you know I'm very
impressed with the PC uh I mean the
Pennsylvania County Schools all your
students I've run into them at city
meetings tonsil High School something
couple we had a student at one of our
DCC board meetings and everyone that
I've come in contact with has been
collaborative they've been open to new
ideas and they've been very helpful so
thank you for the opportunity to speak I
just wanted to share a few things and if
you need anything if you want to visit
DCC let me know we're more than happy to
host you thank you any questions
all right thank you thank you Dr Wallace
for coming and we look forward to
working with you
at this time we'll have the character
word of the month honesty and his grace
dolls will be doing the presentation
huh
character word of the month is honesty
when you tell a lie you steal someone's
right to the truth Khalid hostini
honesty is more important in 2022 than
it has ever been with social media
unfurling at our fingertips there is so
much dishonesty being shoved into our
faces at all times
showing someone a simple truth is one of
the highest Stakes of vulnerability
being vulnerable isn't showing weakness
it's showing true strength remaining
true to yourself and others is the
greatest skill someone can have nowadays
Honesty will always be the best policy
okay thank you for
[Applause]
all right at this time we have some
requests to address about what Mr Martin
Fisher
I'm going to come up and uh
members of the board Virginia's Governor
juncken is leading our education
Community away from the extremist
diatribe of forced sexual abuse that you
as aboard wisely rejected last year but
School boards favoring the coerced
sexual abuses of students are leading
efforts to flood the venues of community
discussion with false accusations
Slanders and lies targeting Common Sense
itself as well as our clear thinking
Educators and even our loving dedicated
parents whose children are most
vulnerable in the crosshairs of these
sexual predators and groomers
it is the respect of privacy and the
Dignity of all students that most upsets
these sexual groomers and after we
elected a governor who promised to
respect and listen to parents and honor
their roles in the lives of their own
children these sexual predators school
officials and Northern Virginia school
board members cried out their Stu about
protecting so-called trans children but
you will notice throughout their
comments something is missing
there seems to be a sentence that
remains unfinished protect from whom
their aim is to protect the children
they seek to sexually groom and abuse
from the children's own parents we must
reject this lie that the government's
role the school's role is to serve as
some sort of Iron Curtain of protective
division between children and their own
parents please please make your position
clear comments are open regarding these
new policies through October 26 and
school boards that are unfriendly to
parents rights are organized and making
comments
Pennsylvania county parents and
grandparents deserve your action you are
here to represent this constituency my
understanding is that this board has not
commented please do something to comment
soon say what needs to be said declare
truth parents are the primary educators
of their own children stand up against
these enemies of love and family and
stand for common sense and rectitude
transgenderism itself is a medical
Scandal pushing off-label hormone
boosters and blockers and medically
unnecessary surgeries procedures
castrations double mastectomies
mutilations and sterilizations on an
alarmingly growing scale most of us
understand it is not medically
biologically possible not medically or
biologically possible to be conceived
born to exist in the wrong body these
Predator groomers are seizing Minds
mutilating bodies and crushing families
Shifting the debate to parental rights
is huge please comment
thank you Mr Fisher
okay this time Brandy Eastwood
good evening my name is Brandi Eastwood
and I'm the mother of three young ladies
that attend Pittsylvania County Schools
I've sent emails and corresponded with
you all on a couple different occasions
concerning the dress code I'd like to
tell you how much I greatly appreciate
your attention and willingness to work
together in forming a clearer more
up-to-date code
I know the committee is working on
revision so I wanted to offer some
insight into the life of a mom of three
girls that are trying to navigate
Pennsylvania County High School current
trends and still be within regulation
I've compiled a few printouts of
unprompted Google searches
that consist of shop for teen girl
shorts current Trend team 2022 clothing
young girl and athletic attire girls
jeans for back to school teen girl
casual dress teen girl appropriate
clothing
to which 26 of the 28 outfits or
articles of clothing that popped up
would not be acceptable to the current
PCS dress code
six separate Google searches that turned
out no viable options I also printed a
picture of my children in their normal
clothing that is in no way revealing but
is also not PCS dress code approved also
included included a picture of two
separate times
my girls were dress coded
just for comparison a picture of the
class of 1972 at GW was printed in the
register and B recently yet not a single
female pictured in that photograph would
be considered acceptable
to the current PCS dress code guidelines
many dress code rules include the skirt
length or shoulder strap ripped width
requirement unfortunately specific dress
codes like that one often Target female
students especially those with certain
body types I am fearful that controversy
will increasingly pop up over whether
excluding students from the classroom
for violating dress code is worthwhile
and whether such rules are
disproportionately enforced against
females
in the end our school's main priority is
to educate students including teaching
them healthy and respectful ways to
treat each other
We should strive for our students to
learn in environments that value their
brains and not punish them for having a
female body or a certain body type
I'll leave you with departing remarks
there is no logic in a policy that takes
away anyone's rights to education
because their shorts are too short
what's more distracting that their
shoulders are showing
or the fact that they just missed an
entire history lesson
and I would love to give you guys the
printouts they're just unprompted Google
searches
okay
thank you for your time thank you Ms
Eastwood for coming
also this time we have pittsylvania's
for a brighter future 2022
if I may yeah I was asked to introduce
this person okay and then when she
finishes I have a few comments that
bring us up to date Miss uh Walker
couldn't be here tonight
somebody gave me a bio of this person
and I'm not going to pay much attention
to it
I've known this lady
for over 20 years her children and my
children were in the same class that's
when I first met her
she's been involved in education ever
since I've known him before
since she was with when she was with
Pennsylvania Canada schools she worked
at these schools
Central Elementary
Spring Garden Elementary Central Middle
Chatham Elementary
gifted for Chatham Mount Airy hurt and
south side
I think everybody in the Canada knows
you by now but you've always been
extremely positive always trying to help
whether it's an education or anywhere in
the community folks Porsha Fitzgerald
thank you for coming
thank you and thank you for that
wonderful information
board
um Dr Jones
the other board members
good evening
thank you for allowing me to speak to
you on behalf of the pittsylvaniaans for
better
education
for a better future brighter future
and uh this is the 2022 of which I am a
part and active part because this is
what I believe in as well
I'm Portia Fitzgerald and I'm a resident
of the bannister District a retired
education for Pennsylvania County
schools and an advocate for educational
excellence and opportunity for all
students
to ensure that our County will be able
to continue and improve efficiency in
educational opportunities for our
students and staff it is imperative that
we support the one percent sales tax
referendum by voting yes as we cast
avids in the November election
the board administrative staff faculty
and support Personnel are doing a great
job under the prevailing conditions and
circumstances trying to provide the
necessary environmental atmosphere
safety precautions and educational
opportunities that are conducive to the
maximum achievement for all of the
students in the county however because
of the urgent need of Revenue to fund
construction and Renovations at all the
elementary and Pennsylvania
Career Technical Center the task to
provide to provide educational
excellence in this education is becoming
a tremendous
challenge
decreasing educational opportunities
the one percent sales tax referendum
would provide Revenue that could only be
used for school construction than
projects and Renovations therefore our
students would not have to wait in line
before funds would become available to
have new classrooms constructed and
renovated uh
or be replaced these outside unattached
mobile classrooms
um and uh also these classroom mobile
classrooms are present a
a threat to our security for the
students
we also as you can see in the brochures
have lots of other areas that we would
be able to improve and upgrade in order
to make our school system a great place
to learn and work
as Pennsylvania County Schools provide
students with what is needed to prepare
and meet the future current future needs
challenges and demands of our society
there is a desperate need of the
expansion of the auto technology
emergency medical technician or EMT HVAC
and industrial maintenance and the
nursing health science which is offered
at the Pennsylvania Career and Technical
Center the students in Pennsylvania's
schools do not need to wait in line for
funding to make this necessity become a
reality it needs to happen now our
neighboring Counties have already voted
and have a one percent sales tax to
benefit the educational opportunities of
their students not time for us to make a
difference by joining in and voting yes
for the one percent sales tax referendum
in November and as a traveling resource
teacher I witnessed and experienced many
of the conditions that we are faced with
today thank you very much for your
support
thank you Ms Fitzgerald for coming
um one of the things we're less than a
month away for the election uh to be
able to vote on this and one of the
things that pointed out November the 8th
is our next school board meeting and
that's the date of Elections so
hopefully before we finish up the school
board meeting on the 8th we'll have some
positive news coming in from a
registrar's office that you know that
this will be passed and I feel very
certain with all the work that
everybody's put in it will be this year
so thank you very much for coming thank
you and thank you for your support okay
can I ask a question Mr chairman yes Dr
Jones you might correct me if I'm wrong
but a lot of the feedback that I hear
and please I am all in for this okay
I've visited the schools every one of
them and I know what their needs are and
they are many and and we need to act
upon this but there's a lot of people
out there that throw this back at you
well what happens to the lottery money
correct me if I'm wrong
every penny that we get for the lottery
is designated Dr Jones am I correct to
say for Education only
we can't use any of that to renovate our
schools am I correct there's a piece of
that that we can about a million dollars
can go towards Capital but we spend that
specific the specific needs that we have
for that year but the rest of the
lottery money is earmarked for replaced
with a basic Aid in the operations
budget like class size reduction and the
early reading intervention programs that
we have so it's the other money is
earmarked specific for those programs I
think a lot of the Seas citizens just
have it uh
confused that they think that every
penny that we get from the lottery money
we can just use it like we want to
it doesn't work that way
thank you
thank you yes there's a lot of
prioritizing that we have to in the
board is magnificent and the
administration here at Pittsylvania
County schools that letting us know what
we have to comply to and what we have to
have first before we can just spend it
all on whatever we think is needed it's
process
thank you very much thank you very much
thank you may I have a couple minutes
now thank you Miss Fitzgerald and if
anybody in this room has ever done any
business with any government everything
has strengths attached to it when you
talk about money
but board members if you check your
email Ms Walker send out a link to start
your view
several weeks ago they wrote a very
concise article explained exactly what
Lottery funds go for
and you can refer these people to that
I want to first of all thank this group
the people for a better future of the
work they've done and the organization
this campaign cost over forty thousand
dollars
and within the first two weeks of
talking about it businessman in this
County got together and raised that
within two weeks
that's kind of unheard of for me but
they went out their sales when they were
organized and they took it upon their
sales to go out and talk to other
businesses and other citizens that
donated and paid for this it is
expensive for this paper and advertising
that we do
uh I was asked to let the board member
know that since our last meeting
October 1st Dr Jones went to Thompson
Middle School for a fall festival
y'all remember what was happening on
October 1st I didn't have electricity at
my house I don't know about y'all
but I guess and the way he told me that
when people find out they had it inside
the building people didn't know where to
go they had a full house all day so that
was a good time to get the message out
we've been to Mount Hermon Fire
Department Kentucky elementary school
board meeting tonight Willie is going to
go to Cherrystone Association Thursday
next week it hurt Board of Supervisors
Braswell the next week in Union Hall and
the Danville rotary club before the
election and if it's anybody else that
wants information
please get in touch with us
I encourage everybody in this room and
everybody watching to go to Facebook
vote Yes for PCs Facebook page
there's all the information there you
could want ask questions
there's some commentary there
I'm going to step out a little bit
because one of us a few things I had to
say and I got some questions there and
these questions ever asked have been
answered many times and if anybody has a
question of me I'm a little too old to
learn new uh technology sometimes
my contact information is on our webpage
at the school webpage you call me
anytime whether you're forward against
it ask me any questions I'll be glad to
talk to you and answer
I also encourage our board members to
make sure everybody's got a signed up I
still get have questions does the board
does this school board support this I do
not understand why those those questions
keep popping up and uh
and also uh go to the Facebook page and
share some of the things
Ms Walter says that she's going to be
here on the 8th so that when good news
comes in we can celebrate together so
that's the information I was asked to to
give out and if anybody has any
questions if you can't call me you call
a school board member you get in touch
with Miss Walker she desperately still
needs and we have a lot of people say
they are in favor of this
but they're still looking for people to
work polls it just takes a lot of people
to cover all the poll places we have in
this County so if anybody is willing to
spend some time you've got on this
brochure is our contact information
contact her and let her know thank you
thank you Mr chairman okay thank you
Mr Burton at this time we'll have a
Pennsylvania Education Association and
Dr Jessica Jones
good evening chairman Moon
superintendent Jones School Board member
central office staff and everybody in
attendance hey guys
um I want to start off by saying I
absolutely adore the character word of
the month honesty
um just a personal note I had a past
boyfriend ex-boyfriend I guess I will
put him as that who said I was honest to
a fault
and that meant we were not compatible
take that as you will
but honesty in itself is a very
intriguing topic because it goes beyond
the workplace and it's about life in
general
and in my curiosity of analyzing honesty
I too found traces of dishonesty that
flows in abundance
and a Forbes leadership strategy article
titled the 10 most common workplace lies
bless you bless you the author postures
quote in the workplace people FIB
flatter fabricate prevricate evacuate
embellish quote take liberties with Bend
or stretch the truth they both conceal
falsify emit spread gossip misinform or
cover up embarrassing perhaps even
unethical Acts they lie in order to
avoid accepting responsibility to build
status and power to quote protect others
from hearing a negative truth to
preserve a sense of autonomy to keep
their jobs to get out of unwanted work
to get on the good side of the boss to
be perceived as team players when their
main interest is self-interest or they
lie because they're under pressure to
perform and because as one co-worker
observed about his teammates
they lack the guts to tell the boss that
what is being asked isn't doable
end quote
I've worked in a lot of places
in all honesty all the above are very
true
the truth of the matter is that Honesty
goes beyond the workplace and in is in
fact a part of life
people hide things is it should protect
you to protect self or is it an effort
to protect a damaged relationship
either way the motivation for being
honest is veiled by the pain of Truth
something is wrong but how do you fix it
a question that is asked in both
workplace and in life
nonetheless are things for
self-gratification in some form
including intentionally wanting to hurt
the person or other persons involved
don't know
but because along with honesty comes
intention
the bigger piece that we have to analyze
and the medical world the definition of
attention is also known as the healing
process of a wound
along with honesty can come hurt
but with hurt there should also be
healing for ourselves and others and
that seems to be a theme
when we continue to look at honesty we
also have to look at hurt but understand
the intention should be to heal
this is something I mentioned last month
in my prayer and I feel it needed to be
mentioned again today
because sometimes there will be things
coming in political as that we don't
want to hear things that are shared on
Facebook that shouldn't be said
and ultimately we have to find what the
truth is and stick to our memorials and
our values to do what is right and above
all what is honest and fair in The Game
of Life
with that being said I would also
mention we had our first pea meeting
this past Thursday
we too talked about honesty and truth
then we discussed many things including
submitting a letter to the editor
about the PCS sales tax look forward to
you reading that
we discussed the DCC idea Fair a
partnership that we worked with and
started with Dr Jones several years ago
and a lot of Pittsylvania County Public
School students have been participating
in it this year it's going to be in
person on November the 15th on campus so
we're looking forward to that
we also talk about the current work my
Advisory board for Teacher education and
licensure colleagues and I are working
on for the Board of Education as we
conclude our work on the licensure
renewal manual for 10-year licenses
professional development opportunities
for the future though we look forward to
trying to extend to the instructional
Department here at PCS
one of those opportunities was vea's
epic conference the educational
professionals and collaboration
conference the first of its kind where
we actually merged three separate
conferences together in one to bring
collaboration from across the Spectrum
in education
this was held this past Friday and
Saturday at the Richmond Marriott and
there was a little over 300 people in
attendance
we got to engage in over 30 breakout
sessions and talk with Dr Manny Scott he
was one of the main characters in The
2007 movie Freedom Writers and if you
recall that movie was about the inner
city students in California who had this
teacher who came out of nowhere who
believed her students could achieve even
when they couldn't
it's a heroic tale that we still live
even to this day what we have to believe
in others sometimes more than we do in
ourselves
now Dr Scott who recently was hooded
spoke about the pain he experienced in
life and how honesty was not always his
best policy
but as he grew and he matured and you
start to see the bigger picture through
other experiences in life he realized
that Honesty was in the mirror and he
had to look at it to better himself not
just as a person in the work field but a
person in life who is now a entrepreneur
he is a traveler he is a scholar he is a
father someone he said that he's now who
he never had
and that's because he embraced honesty
to its fullest policy
I too have the honor of speaking to the
audience as the 2022 vea award for
teaching Excellence recipient
and it was also shared that I was named
the recipient of the 2023 California
casualty award for teaching Excellence
pretty much the teacher of the year for
the state of Virginia
with that being said board members and
superintendent Jones I look forward to
sharing more information with you as my
invited guest to the NDA Foundation
salute to Excellence in education Gala
set for May 2023 in Washington D.C
so thank you for believing in people
like me embracing honesty and Truth to
do what's right
and look forward to a better and
brighter future for all of us
thank you Dr Jones for your presentation
[Applause]
at this time we'll have his staff and
committee reports we have a report of Mr
Henderson will be doing from the school
board building committee you know Mr
Henderson is a chairman so at this time
would you like to tell us about thank
you to the school board the school board
building committee
has received a request for naming of
school board property for the Tunstall
High School football field house
in honor of Calvin Lee scares Jr
Calvin Lee scarris Jr was a principal at
um Tunstall high school for several
years
he was solely responsible basically
solely responsible for getting the field
house built at Tunstall high school and
the building committee would like to
recommend that the board waive the first
review
and Grant final approval of this request
the reason that we are requesting the um
first the wave of the first review is
that our next meeting is November the
8th
tunstall's last home football game is
November the 4th
so we would like to get this passed so
that uh this ceremony could be held on
November the 4th if we waited until
November the 8th then we'd have to put
the dedication off to 2023 and we'd like
to get that out of the way he's
certainly deserving and I'm hoping that
the board will go along with that thank
you
all right so we'll look at voting on
that when we get to a new business
the next we have is reviewing the desk
reports or is it anyone anything there
that would like to be pulled out and
moved into new business
I think he was looking at the encounter
committee report
I'm sorry under the
um death reports who want to pull out
the county report okay
okay
no yeah okay you can make a comment now
whatever you have
this year was the first year that I set
in on the
committee that is looking at the 2324
school calendar
thank you Dr Jones for making that
possible and thank you Miss Petty I tell
you what
she deserves all the Kudos in the world
buddy she um she's she's tough she's
just she's the perfect
perfect person to handle that committee
and I think there we met last Wednesday
last Wednesday it was and uh 12 was it
12 of us
principals I'm not a principal but there
were it included principles it included
teachers it included myself and other
parents from the community and all 12 of
us wanted different things
I'll tell you what it is it was amazing
that I think it lasted what two over two
hours it was wasn't that we sat there
and we listened to everybody's um wants
and wish list my hats off to teachers
especially I tell you what they've
they've got a tough tough job as
everybody does but when you start
putting in professional development days
and
after school
activities and ptos and and trying to
work around everybody's schedule it
becomes complicated no question about it
so I know that there's not um
perhaps if I can put this like like I
want to probably can't but I'll try uh
we can't give everybody everything that
they want
but at the end of the day last Wednesday
when we exited the room Miss Petty you
correct me if I'm wrong
we all were on the same page
we all agreed that the calendar that we
were going to present to Dr Jones
was complete and was fair for everybody
and I think that we had you correct me
again 200 plus responses is that right
sent out a survey what uh what what do
you want and there were like 250
responses they came back to us first
time we've ever had that many from what
I understand and it was so diverse it
was it did you sit there and read them
all and everybody wanted a piece of the
pie but there's only enough pie to go
around for a few but anyway
be that as it may Dr Jones I would like
to ask you if possible
um
to look at it and see if there's
something that we can work out I last
year I was a proponent of Juneteenth and
I would like to see that day
added to the calendar if at all possible
I would also like to ask that the that
this Monday is June July the 3rd is on a
Monday and July the 4th is on a Tuesday
I would also like to see if there's any
way that we can make July the 3rd
a red day so that they'll have Friday
Saturday or Saturday Sunday Monday and
Tuesday all for the Fourth of July
weekend
and one thing that we possibly could do
is we could okay let's give them off
Monday and Tuesday and ask them to work
10 hours Wednesday Thursday and Friday
to make up for that if that's feasible
um
there's been a lot of feedback
um on the calendar
the calendar committee since we
voted on it and and took that into
consideration on Wednesday now a lot of
people have thought about this and
thought about that and they want this
and they want that but I would ask you
is there any way that we can instill
put Juneteenth in there
and also give them the third of July off
and let them work 10 hours a day
Wednesday Thursday and Friday
thank you yes yes sir and
red days for those who are not familiar
with our calendar red days are holidays
for 12-month employees we have 10-month
staff we have 11-month staff and we have
12-month staff
12-month staff are entitled to annually
or vacation leave days as well and
there's a a scale however long you work
you get additional weeks based upon your
tenure as a as a employee in
Pennsylvania county schools
so if you look at our calendar we have
something called tpd days teach
professional days and that's for our
instructional staff that are 10 month
employees they have 180 days that's
required in the calendar for students
but then we have their contract is for
200 days and they have something called
Teach professional day so you teach 180
days with children then you have 11 days
teach professional days and then nine
days are unassigned so that's the
teaching work that's a teacher work year
a contract for 200 days well 12-month
employees have a 260-day contract and in
that there are 20 red days in the in the
calendar and so that's something as we
look at calendar when it comes to me I
count tpd days teach professionally days
I count 180 days for students and it's
90 first semester 92nd semester and then
I count half day work half day or one
o'clock dismissal days for students and
we keep that the same year to year and
then I look at Red days and we have 20
red days in the calendar
so when the counter comes to me I count
them and in this case there were 21 red
days and so at that point
we had to I I made a decision we've got
to find a red day that we would cut and
that was the Juneteenth day now if we'd
like to go back based upon history and
how we've done the counter if we'd like
to go back and change our red days we
can do that but we can but we need to
find red days in the counter we have so
many red days at Christmas
so many red days at Thanksgiving so many
red days at Spring break
we can do that and adjust the counter if
that's what we'd like to do or you know
if the board wishes they can look at you
know something different as opposed to
something different than the 20 days
red days are holidays for 12-month staff
so that's where that decision so the
board has the authority to do that do
they well the board approves the
calendar okay the school board approves
the county right you know what I would
say is that a calendar
anytime you make a change in the
calendar
next year they're going to be additional
asks
and then so over time
you may lose the Integrity of a calendar
if you have days that are asked and ask
and ask
you know over the years you may have
extensions of red days or extensions of
other types of days so I just kind of
have the board to think about that
before any changes are made because any
change that's made this year
you know there may come a request two
years from now or three years from now
for another
and so over time you could again have a
lot of different types of days in your
calendar based on request
so that's where that decision came from
just on how we've done things in looking
at our counters in past years
are there any other red days that we can
steal and move it around there would be
you'd have to go back and look at the
calendar you know look at Christmas and
see how many red days are at Christmas
and you could rotate move some of those
days from Christmas then become work
days at Christmas and move those red
days to June or July the Third
well I know December the 20th uh the
20th 21st and 22nd of December is
Wednesday Thursday and Friday
we took the 20th and moved it to October
so that everybody could have that day
off which was a good move I think and
that was appreciated by everybody
am I asking too much to maybe take the
21st of December away from the Christmas
calendar
I'm gonna put up a bulletproof
bulletproof vest though
and maybe move that is to July the third
or Juneteenth
that would be either either a board
decision or you take it back to the
calendar committee and let the counter
committee take another look at it
may I get a couple clarification
because you just answered one of them to
do what you're talking about the red day
you'd have to move it take away from
somewhere else
if you keep if you keep well we were
doing it keep them safe
and I understood you say when y'all
finished last week and left everybody
was in agreement nobody got everything
wanted but everybody was in agreement is
that correct the 12 of us were yes okay
so that was the committee
to me if you if one board member whether
it's you me anybody else wants to change
anything now
it needs to go back to that committee
and I agree every board member needs to
have the opportunity to look at it and
that's normally what we do once the
committee is finished
correct that's when we when we next
month and month out when we approve it
but uh it just because if we make a
decision without them looking at first
it opens it up to every one on this
board getting whatever they want and not
whether what the 12 agreed on I
understand and I agree with you is that
were we going to vote on this tonight
were we going to approve the calendar
tonight
it's not on the counter to be voted on
tonight so it could actually go back to
the to the calendar committee to um
address again could we do that I mean is
that out of the question
you could do that you could reconvene
accounting committees or to look at this
Miss Peter you willing to are you
willing to take that
well I don't want to beat a dead horse
but um you know I'm I'm trying to look
out for the uh constituent to the
teachers the the principals and
everybody that's um in our school system
and we again
everybody wants something I understand
that and everybody can't have everything
they want but if it's another way that
we can look at it and maybe Rob from
Peter to pay Paul I would appreciate if
we could do that
and Mr Henderson Mrs Petty I asked Mrs
Petty to look at that day with the
calendar committee so I asked her to do
that when she brought it back to you all
and but then but then when it came to me
I noticed that there were 21 red days
and so I made that change okay from the
county yes sir
okay
thank you
there's any the other board members have
any comments at this time
on the calendar other than send it back
to the committee and let them look at it
I was also asked about
um putting the day in June back
um since it is a Federal holiday so that
you would give Juneteenth oh
um I don't think it would be a wise
choice to take the one of the days
before Christmas from a administrator or
or teacher point of view just by the
time they get to that day and Sol's or
over exams are over they're ready to
celebrate the holidays as well and then
get ready for a second semester
Mr Mooney may I clarify there are there
are federal holidays and
12-month staff the school division do
not get all the federal holidays but we
do get other days that are not federal
holidays so
just because it's a Federal holiday that
day does not necessarily become a red
day or a holiday for our staff right I
mean we don't represent we don't uh
choose Veterans Day to take off I mean
yes
okay thank you for listening thank you I
would like just add that Juneteenth
would be a day that will be highly
appreciated if there's anything that
could be brought about
well miss Petty balls in your court
we'll see what we can do to help
okay any other questions on the desk
reports
if not then we'll have the
superintendent give his reward yes sir
I'd like to draw your attention back to
our death reports of the audit the clean
audit or the school activity fund audit
report
like the if you look at that in detail
you'll find that there are seven schools
that have clean Audits and I'd like to
recognize these schools the first is
Chatham Elementary School and it has
three years in the past six years with
clean audits
gretton elementary school has five years
of clean audits South Side has two years
of clean audits Stony Mill three years
Twin Springs three years
Union Hall two years and pctc one year
Auditors are very particular and very
meticulous so to have a clean audit it
really takes a lot of hard work some of
our some of our other schools just
missed it by a a period here or across T
there so we feel very good about the
work that our finance department is
doing our school bookkeepers are doing
and Mrs Amy Hardy who oversees kind of
does our school audits for us
has some other items Mr Burton spoke
about the sales tax referendum thank you
all for all that you're doing and
getting the word out it's so important
this is important referendum for the
school division we have we're the 30th
largest School Division in the state by
student population we're the largest by
land area we have some schools that
range from 84 years to 58 years of age
they have some major Renovations that
are coming due like roofs new windows
HVAC we also have 26 mobile units that
we need to bring the children inside we
have detached gymnasiums that we need to
connect to hallway so our students don't
have to go outside to change classes or
to get into the restroom there's a lot
of needs out there remember if you look
at this sheet
the first the page like this are
priorities our first priority is safety
we want to establish or build safety
vestibules in our schools again we want
to bring kids out of mobile units inside
of hallways so they don't have to go
outside to change to go to the restrooms
we want to
improve the offerings of pctc
who want to renovate replace equipment
HVAC units roofs and then we want to be
sure that we're constructing Innovative
learning environments for our students
our students these young ones they're
going to compete across the state
they're going to compete nationally and
they're going to compete internationally
for those jobs and for college
placements and then the back of the
sheets are the back of the sheet are is
needs or the needs for the School
Division and the costs associated with
with those meetings per School
uh
next item I have this evening uh
is dress code update like to update the
board on where we are with the dress
code meetings a committee of parents
teachers administrators and school board
members met on September the 8th to
review the current dress code for
students the school board attorney has
reviewed the document that the committee
has put together and has been sent back
to the committee
uh for review
um it's anticipated that we'll have a
draft to the board in November
and I think several board members here
have served on that committee any
comments from board members who served
on the dress code committee
a large number of folks there parents
teachers administrators
I was impressed with how open everybody
was about their concerns whether we're
more changes or not they spoke up and
they disagreed but it's Lieutenant said
at the end of the day they came up with
something everybody was satisfied with
we had parents that were having trouble
getting closed parents said they had
kids that had five kids and they weren't
having any trouble so
but at the end of the day they were in
agreement with what they came up with
um I feel that the committee was not an
accurate representation of what I have
been faced with when I go out in the
community from all parts of Pennsylvania
county
I do appreciate the change in some of
the terminology but I think some of the
issues that are on the dress code where
we are targeting certain clothing that
female students can wear have still not
been addressed and I would encourage
that maybe the dress code committee meet
again to revisit that and figure out how
that we can
make this more acceptable since change
needs to happen
the next item I want to make one one
thing
I understand what Ms merch is saying
the mathematical way I look at it you
had 60 some percent because parents that
didn't want to make any change and over
70 percent of the staff that didn't want
make any changes if you can't do a
random getting people out and random you
go get that flavor of it's going to have
more in favor of not doing things I
think that's kind of what I saw is the
majority of people are in favor of the
same thing and you try to get a random
group together probably the majority of
people you get is going to be in favor
of that big way of doing it
but I think when you focus and you see
we're 61 percent said no change if you
look at if we could pull the numbers and
you see if you were a parent of a male
student versus if you're a parent of a
female student you see that you have
different ideas and different
um
I guess you see where the dress code is
actually affecting the student
population so if you put a dress code
survey out there and you actually put
are you a parent of a male student if
I'm a parent of a male student I don't
have an issue with the dress code if I'm
a parent of a female student I do
these pictures that were passed around
today you can see some of the issues in
the pictures these students are
completely covered and it's very
difficult I had a parent I was speaking
with today it is very difficult when a
student gets sent to the office where
they are fully covered but they're
t-shirt didn't come fingertip length or
four inches above your knee and they're
missing classroom instruction because of
that
and I don't have an answer for that
parent I don't have an answer for that
student on why they were pulled out of
class except you didn't follow a rule
that tells you that you need to be extra
covered and I don't know why that rule
is in existence
well the thing that I think about the
most is the fact that you know our
administrators they don't want students
missing class time
and if there were so many dress code
violations that it was such an issue I
think they would want to change it more
but most of them didn't want to change
it so since they're the ones dealing
with it every day to me I just I'm just
satisfied with what we came up with when
we had the the committee meeting
I
I think we we're opening up a bigger
issue when we ask people to measure
students
and that that's the reason we had we've
had our attorney be sure that that we're
following uh what he believes is is
what's acceptable now as far as the
difference between the genders and so
he's he's had the review of it he feels
comfortable with what we've provided
back so I'm just looking forward to
seeing what the committee uh responds
back to miss Craig and Missy on that
next item next item I have Middle School
athletics update
so a survey of the interest of in having
middle school athletes was provided to
parents in Grace K2 K-12 88.5 were in
favor of Middle School of Athletics
the survey also polled parent selection
of the sports of Interest the two top
sports for boys are football and
baseball football garnered 328 votes in
baseball 160 votes and the two top
sports for girls are volleyball with 89
votes and softball with 73 votes
um in your information today you'll find
a table that provides the availability
of fields also you'll see in your packet
some over uh some some photographs that
Mr Hudson made using a drone that gives
you an idea of what's available at each
of the schools
regulation football field requires 360
feet by 160 feet
a High School baseball field
shares the same dimensions as a
professional baseball field 300 down the
lines and 400 in center field with some
deviations and softball down the lines
180 185 feet and center field about 235
feet
looking at each of the schools of
Chatham middle school has a very nice
football field it's 391 by 210 or by 201
however the dimensions for the baseball
field are 204
down the left field line and 185 down
the right field line so that could
possibly serve as a softball field for
girls at Dan River Middle School have a
very nice football field 370 by 201
dimensions for the baseball field leads
leave a short right field line left
field is 450. right field is 185 so it
could possibly serve as a softball field
Gretna Middle School football fields
laid out it's not there so you'd have to
have goal posts it's 380 by 2 209
doesn't have bleachers or field goal
post the baseball softball fields are
192 down the lines so they could
probably serve as a softball field in
Tunstall middle school if you're
familiar with Tunstall Middle School it
has two different uh layers there's a
top and then a kind of a bottom layer
there both have nice sized football
fields one is 410 by 225 and one's 420
by 190
but it does not have bleachers or field
goal post and it doesn't have baseball
or softball
if you also look at the information
provided if the board's direction is to
look at Sports and you will were to say
look at football there's additional cost
for football of about forty thousand
dollars per school for uniforms and
provided that information in your packet
uh this evening any questions regarding
of Athletics
and where we are with this
budget budget season is approaching so I
would like to get some direction from
the board Mr Moon
by the next board meeting as to what you
all think you would like to do and then
we can bring back some some solid
numbers for you if this is something
that you wish for us to look at for the
upcoming school year
uh the last item that I have before go
through uh the meetings for the board
governor yonkin in September
developed and posted model policies on
privacy dignity and respect for all
students and parents in Virginia's
public schools he did this to be sure
School divisions were speaking with
parents about the concerns of their
students and be sure that parents had a
good deal of input on their children's
schooling years
that policy is available for you this
evening in the packet for your review
that was sent out earlier for you so I
just wanted to be sure that you all were
aware that that's in there this evening
would also like to next item I have is a
proclamation uh from the Virginia school
boards Association on bullying
prevention month it's a month of October
and then the last item I have upcoming
vsba conferences the 17th annual dsba
student board Representatives Workshop
is on November the 16th
I'm at 10 A.M in Williamsburg and then
the 200 2022 bsbe annual convention is
November the 16th and 17th in
Williamsburg and please correspond with
Mrs Hancock if you have any questions
regarding this
and that's all I have this evening Mr
Moon okay thank you Dr Jones
yes sir you can if you'd like to
a move we accept the proclamation
foreign
okay
roll call
Mr Burton uh
Mr Mills uh Miss Henderson aye Mr
Fitzgerald uh Miss Merricks Mr Moon hi
and Mr Doss is absent
no unfinished business this evening so
we'll move ahead to the new business
oh with that uh I think you got to be
Quest
that we vote on for the naming of the
constant High School football field
house on their first reading
I make a motion I think it's we're in
line for it now is it correct I'll make
a motion that we accept the letter uh
the recommendation from from Tunstall
and move on with it and waive the first
reading okay
exactly
foreign
Mr Burton before I vote on this and make
it clear you folks know how I feel about
not following policy
you know in this particular issue I'm
telling you from experience it's called
problems in the past when we did not
follow policy and we're going to get in
trouble one day somebody's bored by not
following this policy but knowing this
individual I have no problem at all
voting on this tonight
well my question to you Mr Burton I
think you need to explain to us why
we're violating something if we are I
mean we need to know because we
certainly don't want to do anything you
just weighed the first reading and I
understand that we're able to do that
yes sure and I'm just I'm just telling
you I've been here long enough to know
it has caused problems in the past he's
not very careful but I'm voting in favor
of this because I know there's no
promise I know this individual and I
have deep respect for it thank you
Mr Fitzgerald uh Miss Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon
aye and Mr Dallas is absent
you know just so I can make a comment I
think according to what Mr Henderson had
said this evening
you know knowing the guy's reputation
but this is the first time we've had
someone that went out and raised maybe
two or three hundred thousand dollars to
build a facility
um that you know come into play the
timing of the getting it in this season
so it could be presented on November the
4th of the next meeting would be on
November the 8th so I think those are
stenuating circumstances it's what voted
to approve it on the first reading
the next we have procurement bed
petroleum products
maybe we accept recommendations
second
missed Henderson
any discussion no I'm fine
thank you Mr Mayor
Mr Burton
to Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr Mills aye Mr Moon all right
and Mr Dallas is absent
the next we have is uh pick under
prestigious Federal Awards
Administration and conflict of interest
on a motion to approve the procedures
for conflict of interest and federal
Awards Administration I'll make the
motion
second
okay Mr Burton uh Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr mayles
aye Mr Moon
aye and Mr Dallas is absent
the next is addition to school board
policy JT privacy dignity and respect
for all students and parents
to have a move except
[Music]
and again this one here is the way the
first reading for the
to approve it on the first reading
roll call Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald uh
Miss Henderson aye Miss Merricks aye Mr
Mays aye Mr Moon aye and Mr Doss is
absolute
any other items this evening before we
adjourn
move adjourned
Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mays aye Mr
Moon
aye and Mr Dallas is absent
[Music]